now the UN Security Council is to hold
another emergency meeting on Monday
that's after the United Arab Emirates
called for another one seeking a
humanitarian pause to the fighting in
Gaza last week the general assembly
voted in favor of a resolution for an
immediate truce the US and its Ally
Israel were among the countries who
voted against kimley Halid is live at
the White House but first let's head
straight to unhq in New York Gabriel
elisondo is standing by there and so
Gabe first up the UN Security Council
has failed to agreed so far might this
change well we'll see I can tell you
that here at the UN headquarters uh they
are watching events in Gaza very closely
and many of the member states are quite
concerned this emergency meeting of the
security Council called by the United
Arab Emirates is expected to happen at
about 19 GMT 3 p.m. local time here in
New York the Security Council is
expected to be briefed by top un
officials uh in the region uh from unra
the United Nations relief and work
agency in the Gaza as well as the uh
OSHA the coordination for humanitarian
Affairs office it's important let me
just point out the latest numbers from
the UN unra they're saying that now 63
of their staff members have been killed
in Gaza from the Israeli bombardment
they are saying that they are housing
about
672 th000 uh internally dis bled people
in Gaza in about 149 un shelters and
they say just in the last 72 hours UNR
is reporting that
44 of their facilities in Gaza have been
damaged from bombardment now aside from
this I will point out that we are
hearing that uh Malta and the UAE are
working on another draft resolution
behind the scenes uh for this Security
Council already four drafts have been uh
voted down at the security Council and
or vetoed since this conflict began but
we're hearing that the elected 10 if you
will of the security Council are working
on another draft resolution uh urgently
given the escalation and uh trying to
get that to a point where perhaps it
could come to a vote uh in the next day
or two all right Gabe back with you as
as that goes on uh you headquarters
Let's cross over to Washington DC to the
White House and fact our White House
correspondent kimy halat is standing by
for us there and kimbery so the
President Joe Biden he's under pressure
nearly a year before the election how
does that factor into everything that's
going on as far as his uh stance and
position is
concerned well overall the American
public has been largely supportive of
what the president has been doing in
terms of support for Israel and that is
also indicated in the US Congress but
when you dive a little bit deeper and
you look at what Democrats specifically
uh feel about the president's handling
of this conflict that's where there
start to be some problems for the US
president and what we've been seeing
among Democrats particularly over the
last decade is a decline in support and
it has to do with the fact that there is
growing concern about the plight of the
Palestinian people among the more
Progressive wing of the democratic party
uh we've had a number of Democrats that
have sent a letter to Joe Biden calling
for him to H call for a ceasefire uh
We've also had uh members of Congress
who have said that there needs to be a
more urgent uh priority put on bringing
humanitarian Aid to Gaza so uh when you
look at those numbers they've actually
declined pretty sharply since this
conflict began and one month ago he had
about 86% approval rating within the
Democratic party for his foreign policy
and specifically his handling of of uh
Israel issues and and areas in the
region but that has fallen at about 11
percentage points and that is a pretty
dramatic drop considering it has been
such a short time span so this is a
problem for a president who's looking to
get win reelection in a year's time kimy
thanks very much indeed kimbley H at
that was at yeah the white houseing in
DC let's bring in Abdul Hamid ASM who's
a professor of political science and
middle studies at Ruto University joins
us here in doart great to have you with
us thank as we've just been hearing the
United States very much focused on
what's going on and it is in fact the
key to what's going on uh in Gaza and
has the power to ease the
situation with a phone call from Joe
Biden to Benjamin Neto is that likely to
happen do you think they could do that
they could at least allow a draft
resolution the security Council to pass
M there is now circulating a draft I
just looked at it before I came mhm it
it repeats the points that the US is
insisting on that to condemn taking
hostages allow to release all hostages
to condemn
Hamas but also to call for immediate uh
humanitarian pose is still not final I
mean the United Arab Emirates trying
with other non uh permanent members to
bring almost the same text that had
passed in the general assembly to bring
it to the security Council saying that
it has been approved by over 120
countries so it's rather pass here in
the security Council so if the US wants
to ease the situation it could let it go
and it could put some pressure it could
empowered by the security Council
resolution to tell Netanyahu enough is
enough stop it it could do but what's
your got feeling will it I don't think
the US is now uh is restraining
Netanyahu in any way it's for for uh
electoral reasons one one thing and
there are so much support among the
military establishment in in Washington
to support Israel without any
restriction that is that's unfortunate
there is no serious voices coming from
the administration to to to tell Biden
that is there are a tragedy is in the
making we have to to interfere we have
to do something but there is a growing
voice within the country amongst the
people and indeed protests around the
world are growing that voice is getting
louder and louder and sooner or later
surely the leaderships are going to have
to take notice it could most of the in
the streets are the Young Generation lot
of Peace activist many Jewish voices
also uh go into the streets especially
in Grand Central stration and the
Congress so that could make a difference
however what makes a difference is some
kind of dissension among the European
allies and it's moving there way I mean
the Europeans might not continue with
this blind uh support of the United
States policy Vis A Israel especially
with the with with now news about the
tragedy taking place and their warning
that there might be diseases and there
might be also uh hundreds of or maybe
thousand people under the red so for how
long un can uh the I mean International
Community can accept this going on I
mean this hundreds of thousand of people
are under the threat of Extinction if
they don't stop it now uh this video
released by Hamas of the uh prisoners in
Gaza what do you make of that and and
the pressure that it will put on the
Israeli leadership I think it adds more
pressure on Netanyahu it says also that
the hostages are are in safe place they
are fine and fed and they are frustrated
with their government so that adds also
to the pressure and uh it it it shows
also there might be some kind of
movement on that direction and that we
are willing to release them if you
address also the issues well heras have
said that haven't they they said they
are willing to do to swap all all their
prisoners for all the Palestinian
prisoners in Israel yeah does that got
any traction do you think I I think
there might be some release of some
prisoners okay I mean the Israel
arrested about 1,600 from the West Bank
in the last few weeks since October 7 so
that is there are about 300 children
they could release that there are about
33 women they could release that so
there could be I mean through a a good
mediator just like that of Qatar for
example right they could reach kind of
an agreement to release good number of
Palestinians who are not that of like
with with a life sentence but at least
some of those civilian we could call
them civilians when you have 300
children when you have about 800 in
detention center they had never been put
on trial so why they are there you you
don't you you don't indite them and you
don't release them so they could be
released so I think there might be some
breakthrough in that direction all right
uh ABD Hamid there's much to talk about
but we'll do it later for the time being
thanks very much thank you thank you so
much